README.md, before:

# Project Name

Short, clear description of what this application does and who it’s for.  
(1–2 sentences max.)

**Example:**  
A full-stack web application with a React frontend and a Node/Express backend that allows users to create, manage, and track data stored in a database.

## 🚀 Live Demo

- **Frontend Live Site:** https://your-frontend-url.com  
- **Frontend Repo:** /frontend  
- **Backend Repo:** /backend

## 🧠 Problem Statement

What problem does this project solve?

- Who is this application for?
- What pain point does it address?
- Why does this solution matter?

Focus on the **user problem**, not the technology.

## 🎯 Features

- User authentication (register, login, logout)
- CRUD operations for core resources
- Protected routes and authorization
- Responsive UI (mobile & desktop)
- Form validation and error handling
- RESTful API integration

## 📸 Screenshots

Add screenshots or GIFs of key features here.



## 🛠 Tech Stack

### Frontend
- React
- JavaScript (ES6+)
- HTML5
- CSS3 / Tailwind / Bootstrap
- Vite or Create React App

### Backend
- Node.js
- Express.js
- REST API

### Database
- MongoDB (Mongoose) **or**
- PostgreSQL (Prisma / Knex / Sequelize)

### Tooling
- Git & GitHub
- dotenv (environment variables)
- ESLint / Prettier

## 📁 Project Structure

```text
project-root/
├── frontend/
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── components/
│   │   ├── pages/
│   │   ├── hooks/
│   │   ├── services/        
│   │   ├── styles/
│   │   ├── utils/
│   │   ├── App.jsx
│   │   └── main.jsx
│   ├── index.html
│   └── package.json
│
├── backend/
│   ├── controllers/
│   ├── routes/
│   ├── models/
│   ├── middleware/
│   ├── config/
│   ├── app.js
│   ├── server.js
│   └── package.json
│
└── README.md
```

## ⚙️ Setup & Installation

### Prerequisites
- Node.js (v18+ recommended)
- npm or yarn
- MongoDB or PostgreSQL (local or cloud)

### Backend Setup

```bash
cd backend
npm install
npm run dev
```

Create a `.env` file inside the `backend` folder:

```env
PORT=5000
DATABASE_URL=your_database_url
JWT_SECRET=your_secret_key
```

Backend runs on:  
http://localhost:8080

### Frontend Setup

```bash
cd frontend
npm install
npm run dev
```

Frontend runs on:  
http://localhost:5173

## 🧪 Available Scripts

### Frontend
```bash
npm run dev
npm run build
npm run preview
```

### Backend
```bash
npm run dev
npm start
```

## 🔐 API Overview

### Example Endpoints

```text
POST   /api/auth/register
POST   /api/auth/login
GET    /api/items
POST   /api/items
PUT    /api/items/:id
DELETE /api/items/:id
```

## 🤝 Team & Collaboration

### Team Members
- Name — Role
- Name — Role
- Name — Role

### Workflow
- GitHub Issues for task tracking
- Feature branches for development
- Pull Requests required for all merges
- Code reviews before merging to `main`


## 🧩 Development Process

- Agile / sprint-based workflow
- Backend API built before frontend integration
- MVP defined early
- Incremental feature development

## 📌 Known Issues / Limitations

- Limited role-based access control
- No automated tests yet
- Performance optimizations pending

## 🛣 Future Improvements

- Add automated testing (Jest, Supertest)
- Improve security and validation
- Add caching and performance improvements
- Dockerize the application

## 🙌 Acknowledgments

- Mentors
- Instructors
- Open-source libraries and tools

## 📄 License

This project is for educational purposes only.

Commit message:

README Update Pt. 1
Updated project description, problem statement, and setup instructions in README.md.

README.md, after:

# BrainLog

**BrainLog** is a full-stack web application with a React frontend and a Node/Express backend that helps students keep a structured record of their study sessions and reflections. It enables users to track progress over time, revisit key concepts, and gain insights into their learning patterns using data stored in a database.

## 🚀 Live Demo

- **Frontend Live Site:** https://your-frontend-url.com  
- **Frontend Repo:** /frontend  
- **Backend Repo:** /backend

## 🧠 Problem Statement

Students often forget what they’ve studied, how long they spent, and what insights they uncovered along the way. Their notes can get scattered across apps, notebooks, sticky notes, etc, and this makes it hard to see their progress over time. This can also make it difficult to quickly revisit key concepts before exams and interviews.The purpose of this application is to help students keep a structured record of their study sessions and daily reflections so they can:See consistent progress and wins over weeks and months to stay motivatedRevisit key concepts, resources, and ah-ha momentsGain insight into their learning patterns (time spent, focus level, wins, struggles, etc)

## 🎯 Features

- User authentication (register, login, logout)
- CRUD operations for core resources
- Protected routes and authorization
- Responsive UI (mobile & desktop)
- Form validation and error handling
- RESTful API integration

## 📸 Screenshots

Add screenshots or GIFs of key features here.



## 🛠 Tech Stack

### Frontend
- React
- JavaScript (ES6+)
- HTML5
- CSS3 / Tailwind / Bootstrap
- Vite or Create React App

### Backend
- Node.js
- Express.js
- REST API

### Database
- MongoDB (Mongoose) **or**
- PostgreSQL (Prisma / Knex / Sequelize)

### Tooling
- Git & GitHub
- dotenv (environment variables)
- ESLint / Prettier

## 📁 Project Structure

```text
project-root/
├── frontend/
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── components/
│   │   ├── pages/
│   │   ├── hooks/
│   │   ├── services/        
│   │   ├── styles/
│   │   ├── utils/
│   │   ├── App.jsx
│   │   └── main.jsx
│   ├── index.html
│   └── package.json
│
├── backend/
│   ├── controllers/
│   ├── routes/
│   ├── models/
│   ├── middleware/
│   ├── config/
│   ├── app.js
│   ├── server.js
│   └── package.json
│
└── README.md
```

## ⚙️ Setup & Installation

### Prerequisites
- Node.js (v18+ recommended)
- npm
- MongoDB or PostgreSQL (local or cloud)

### Backend Setup

```bash
cd backend
npm install
npm run dev
```

Create a `.env` file inside the `backend` folder:

```env
PORT=5000
DATABASE_URL=your_database_url
JWT_SECRET=your_secret_key
JWT_LIFETIME=amount_of_time
```

Backend runs on:  
http://localhost:8080

### Frontend Setup

```bash
cd frontend
npm install
npm run dev
```

Create a `.env` file inside the `frontend` folder:

```env
VITE_API_URL=your_localhost_port/api/v1
```
Frontend runs on:  
http://localhost:5173

## 🧪 Available Scripts

### Frontend
```bash
npm run dev
npm run build
npm run preview
```

### Backend
```bash
npm run dev
npm start
```

## 🔐 API Overview

### Example Endpoints

```text
POST   /api/auth/register
POST   /api/auth/login
GET    /api/items
POST   /api/items
PUT    /api/items/:id
DELETE /api/items/:id
```

## 🤝 Team & Collaboration

### Team Members
- Name — Role
- Name — Role
- Name — Role

### Workflow
- GitHub Issues for task tracking
- Feature branches for development
- Pull Requests required for all merges
- Code reviews before merging to `main`


## 🧩 Development Process

- Agile / sprint-based workflow
- Backend API built in tandem with frontend integration
- MVP defined early
- Incremental feature development

## 📌 Known Issues / Limitations

- Limited role-based access control
- No automated tests yet
- Performance optimizations pending

## 🛣 Future Improvements

- Add automated testing (Jest, Supertest)
- Improve security and validation
- Add caching and performance improvements
- Dockerize the application

## 🙌 Acknowledgments

- Mentors: Dan Polityka, Tommy Armstrong, and Amandeep Dhothar
- Instructors
- Open-source libraries and tools: Flowbite, Lucide

## 📄 License

This project is for educational purposes only.
